.TH TICCL-stats 1 "2020 mar 09"

.SH NAME
TICCL-stats - gather n-gram statistics from textfiles

.SH SYNOPSIS
TICCL-stats [options] FILE

TICCL-stats [options] DIR

.SH DESCRIPTION

When a DIR is provided,
.B TICCL-stats
will process all files in DIR and store its results in the current
directory in files called DIR.wordfreqlist.tsv,

When a FILE is provided,
.B TICCL-stats
will process that file and store its results in the directory where FILE is
found.

The output format will be 2 or 4 <tab> separated columns (depending on the
.B -p
option)

First column:
the 'word' tag at hand.

Second column:
the Frequency of the 'word'

when -p is provided:

Third column:
the accumulated frequency for all entries up to and including this one.

Fourth column:
the relative presence of the entry: what percentage of the corpus does the
entry belong to?

.SH OPTIONS
.B --clip
number
.RS
clipping factor. When an item's frequency is lower than 'number', it will not be stored.
.RE

.B -p
.RS
Also output accumulated counts and percentages
.RE

.B -n
.RS
read the input line by line.
.RE

.B -o
outprefix
.RS
use outprefix for all output files.
.RE

.B --lower
.RS
Lowercase all words.
.RE

.B --separator
sep
.RS
Define a separator value to connect ngrams. Default is an underscore.
.RE

.B --underscore
.RS
Backward compatibility. Preferably use --separator=_
.RE

.B --ngram
count
.RS
Construct all n-grams of length 'count'
.RE

.B --hemp
file
.RS
Create a historical emphasis file. This based on words consisting of singe space
separated letters.
.RE

.B -t
or
.B --threads
num_threads
.RS
use 'num_threads' threads to run on. You may us --threads="max" to use as many
threads as possible. This will allocate 2 processors less than given by the
$OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable. Leaving some processor power for other
purposes.
.RE

.B -e
expr
.RS
when searching for files,
.B
TICCL-stats
will only considers files that match with the expression 'expr' which may contain wildcards. The 'expr' is only matched against the file part. Not against paths.
.RE

.B -R
.RS
when a DIR is provided,
.B TICCL-stats
will recurse through this DIR and its subdirs to find files.
.RE

.B -X
.RS
all input is assumed to be XML, and ALL TEXT nodes are used for extract from
.RE

.B -V
or
.B --version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B -h
or
.B --help
.RS
Show usage() information
.RE


.SH BUGS
possible

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot lamasoftware@science.ru.nl

Martin Reynaert: reynaert@uvt.nl
