.TH TICCL\-unk 1 "2018 apr 12"

.SH NAME
TICCL\-unk \- a frequency file cleanup tool

.SH SYNOPSIS

TICCL\-unk [options] FILE

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B TICCL\-unk
processes a tab separated frequency file (for instance a *.tsv file produced by
FoLiA\-stats) and creates 3 new files:

1. A 'clean' file of words that are expected to be within 'reach' of correction by TICCL, i.e.

2. An 'unk' file of words that are unknown according to the criteria, i.e. are not expected to be correctable.

3. A 'punct' file of words that are 'clean' after stripping all leading and
trailing punctuation. The clean variants are also added to the 'clean' file.

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-\-alph
file
.RS
name of the alphabet file. This file must be in the format provided by
TICCL\-lexstat.
.RE

.B \-\-background
lexicon or corpusfile
.RS
additionaly read in an extra file of words (a validated lexicon or a background corpus frequency file, or a combination of both) with
.B optional
frequencies. When NO frequency is found, use the value of the
.B \-\-artifrq
option to set the artificial frequency for the particular lexicon item
.RE

.B \-o
prefix
.RS
Base the output file name(s) on 'outfile'. Normally the name of the inputfile is used. Use this also when the directory of the inputfile is read\-only
.RE

.B \-\-artifrq
artifreq
.RS
Use 'artifreq' or `artifical frequency' as the default value for missing freqencies. This frequency value should exceed the top frequency expected to be observed in the corpus to be cleaned.
.RE

.B \-\-acro
file
.RS
name of an acronyms file that will be generated. (experimental)
.RE

.B \-\-filter
file
.RS
name of a file with ICU transliterator rules to filter all input. (experimental)

see http://userguide.icu-project.org/transforms/general/rules for information
about such rules.

The default rule that is used is:
   æ >ae;
   Æ } [:Uppercase Letter:]* > AE;
   Æ > Ae;
   œ > oe;
   Œ } [:Uppercase Letter:]+ > OE;
   Œ > Oe;
   ĳ > ij;
   Ĳ > IJ;
   ﬂ > fl;
   ﬀ > ff;
   ﬃ > ffi;
   ﬄ > ffl;
   ﬅ > st;
   ß > ss;
   [[:Hyphen:][:Dash:]]+ > '-';
   [•·]  > '.';
.RE

.B \-V
or
.B \-\-version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B \-h
or
.B \-\-help
.RS
Show usage()
.RE

.SH BUGS
possibly

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot Timbl@uvt.nl

Martin Reynaert reynaert@uvt.nl
