.TH TICCL-anahash 1 "2020 feb 05"

.SH NAME
TICCL-anahash - an anagram hashing tool

.SH SYNOPSIS

TICCL-anahash [options] FILE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B TICC-anahash
processes a tab separated frequency file (for instance a *.tsv file produced by
.B FoLiA-stats
) and creates an anagram hash file.

Each word in the input is hashed using the character values produced by
.B TICCL-lexstat
.
All words with the same hash value are collected as one entry in the output
file. They share the same bag-of-characters, are thus anagrams. Hence the name:
anagram hashing.

The inputfile is assumed to be 'clean' (see
.B FoLiA-stats
)

.SH OPTIONS
.B --alph
file
.RS
name of the alphabet file. This file must be in the format provided by
.B TICCL-lexstat.
.RE

.B --clip
clip
.RS
cut off the alphabet at frequency 'clip' (This might already have been done on
creation in TICCL-lexstat, but a (larger) clip can be chosen here.)

Alphabet entries with frequency 0 are special and NEVER clipped. (e.g the SEPARATOR mark)
.RE

.B --background
file
.RS
this specifies an additional corpus which may be merged with the frequency file
to generate a new (.merged) frequency file. The background file may contain
frequencies. When they are missing, 'artifrq' is used. (so the
.B --artifrq
option is obligatory when
.B --background
is used.)
.RE

.B --separator
char
.RS
The symbol that is used to separate the parts of n-grams. Default underscore
(\'_\')
.RE

.B -o
output_file
.RS
Write results to this file.
.RE

.B --artifrq
artifreq
.RS
Use 'artifreq' as an artificial high frequency we assign to (attested or
validated) lexicon items. If the item is also observed in the corpus it will
get frequency 'artifreq + observed corpus frequency'.

If this parameter is > 0,
.B TICCL-anahash
will also create  a separate list of anagram values that DO NOT have the
lexical frequency 'artifreq'.

This option is only relevant if you want to run
.B TICC-indexerNT
later on.
.B
TICCL-indexerNT
is recommended for smaller corpora, e.g. book size. It is faster than
.B
TICCL-indexer
on smaller corpora, but much more memory demanding.

So
.B TICCL-indexer
is indicated for use with larger corpora.

.RE

.B --ngrams
.RS
When the frequency file contains n-grams, (not necessary of equal arity)
we split them into 1-grams and do a frequency lookup per part for the artifreq
value.

.RE

.B --list
.RS
convert the inputfile into a file that is an exact copy of its words with
the anagram hashes added. Preserves the order of the input, an may contain doubles.

.RE

.B -V
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B -v
or
.B --version
.RS
be more verbose
.RE

.B -h
or
.B --help
.RS
usage info
.RE


.SH BUGS
possibly

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot lamasoftware@science.ru.nl

Martin Reynaert reynaert@uvt.nl

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR TICCL-lexstat (1)
.BR TICCL-indexer (1)
.BR TICCL-indexerNT (1)
.BR FoLiA-stats (1)
